fastp	preprocessing
cutadapt	preprocessing
bowtie2	alignment
midas	profiling
humann	profiling
metaphlan	profiling
shogun	profiling
woltka	profiling
flash	paired read merging
pear	paired read merging
ngmerge	paired read merging
bbmerge	paired read merging
pooling	coassembly
spades	assembling
quast	assembling
plass	assembling
spades_metaviral	assembling
spades_plasmid	assembling
spades_bio	assembling
flye	assembling
canu	assembling
necat	assembling
megahit	assembling
unicycler	assembling
metawrap_binning	binning
metawrap_refine	binning
metawrap_reassemble	binning
metawrap_blobology	binning
metawrap_quantify	binning
metawrap_classify	binning
metawrap_annotate	binning
deeparg	annotation (ARGs)
prodigal	gene prediction
macsyfinder	protein annotation
integronfinder	annotation
search_diamond	protein annotation
search_hmmer	protein annotation
prokka	annotation (genome)
barrnap	annotation (rRNA)
ccmap	annotation (circularity)
viralverify	annotation (virus)
coconet	annotation (virus)
tiara	annotation
antismash	annotation
plasforest	plasmid detection
plasmidfinder	plasmid detection
drep	genome dereplication
checkm	genome quality check
checkm_tetra	genome quality check
checkm_tree	genome quality check
checkm_treeqa	genome quality check
checkm_lineageset	genome quality check
checkm_analyze	genome quality check
checkm_qa	genome quality check
checkm_coverage	genome quality check
checkm_unbinned	genome quality check
checkm2		genome quality check
mapping	alignment
